Welcome to JW Broadcasting. This is my friend Saki Morei, a helper to the writing committee
of the governing body. He's here to help me discuss the gifts we present to Jehovah
God. Saki, can you tell us what the program is all about?
It would be my pleasure. We'll meet sister Lillian Barnes. Regardless of our age, we can
learn from her example of loyal endurance. What Bible Council for young ones continues to
motivate her to serve Jehovah whole soul. We'll go to the United States branch and walk
Hill, New York, to see how they produce Braille Bibles. How has the revised newer translation
in Braille helped these brothers and sisters give their gifts to God?
And why is physical cleanliness an important part of our clean worship? We'll find out
in this dramatization from the Principles for Daily Living Series.
This is the April 2019 edition of JW Broadcasting. This month I'd like to talk about presenting
your gifts to God. We certainly have every reason to consider this topic. Well, why is that?
It's because JW gives us so much. James chapter 1 verse 17 says,
every good gift and every perfect present is from above, coming down from the father of the
celestial lights. For example, JW Broadcasting allows us to enjoy the gift of life even though
our first parents tried to take that from us. He's provided us with a variety of foods.
The environment has just right to support life. He's given us his precious word, the Bible,
so that we can come to know him and his purposes. And the greatest perfect present,
Jehovah's given us, is the ransom. Jehovah sacrificed a great deal to arrange for Jesus to
buy back for us the hope of everlasting life. This was at no obligation on Jehovah's part. It was
totally a gift of love. Please read with me 1 John 49. By this the love of God was revealed in
our case that God sent his only begotten son into the world so that we might gain life through him.
What a gift of love from Jehovah, our God. What does that move us to do? Maybe you've had the
experience of a close friend or family member unexpectedly giving you a valuable gift. Immediately,
what are you thinking? You're probably trying to think of what you can give in return.
How much more so would we want to present our gifts to God so as to show our sincere appreciation
for all he's done? Let's consider some possible gifts that Jehovah would be pleased to receive from us.
Many of you and our viewing audience have been moved to give your life to Jehovah,
dedicating yourself to do his will. That's commendable. That's what Romans 12 urges us to do.
However, there are some of you listening who've thought about this way of giving back to Jehovah,
but you haven't yet taken this vital step. Notice the appeal the Apostle Paul makes at Romans 12
1. Therefore, I appeal to you by the compassion of God-brothers to present your bodies as a living
sacrifice, wholly unacceptable to God, a sacred service with your power of reason. Your life is
precious. Presenting your body your whole soul to God is one of the best gifts you can give to
you. This involves our sacred service to Jehovah. That's for sure. But what about the daily
activities of life? Some of you do housework on a daily basis. Others of you have school to attend
and homework to do. Many of you perform secular work. They're shopping to do. Others enjoy using
a small percentage of their time to engage in some type of recreation or entertainment.
Once you're dedicated and baptized, this is all part of your gift to Jehovah.
Please consider with me Colossians 323 and 24. After discussing a whole list of daily
activities of life, what does Jehovah tell us? Colossians 323 and 24. Whatever you're doing,
work at a whole soul as for Jehovah and not for men. For you know that it is from Jehovah,
you will receive the inheritance as a reward. It's true that a Christian's day-to-day
activities are not part of his sacred service. However, the fact that Paul urges us to work whole
soul as to Jehovah makes us think of our entire course of life. Yes, our life course can become
a gift presented to God. For example, do we act and dress with proper decorum at all times?
Understandably, we don't wear a suit and tie or dress for every activity of life.
But in whatever you're doing, is your behavior and dress a gift to Jehovah?
If while engaging in any activity, we'd be embarrassed to identify ourselves as one of Jehovah's
witnesses, then can we really claim to be presenting a gift to Jehovah in our daily life?
What other gifts are in our possession that we can present to God? What about God's morality?
Keeping your dedicated body clean morally is a gift to Jehovah. Did you notice what Romans 12
one said? It said that the bodies we present to Jehovah should be holy and acceptable to God.
If we give into temptation unrepentantly, that could be likened to asking Jehovah to give our gift back.
We're taking back our dedicated life from him, worse yet, his tantamount to taking the gift away
from Jehovah and giving that precious gift to Satan. That does not make sense. Keep clean morally.
It's a precious gift presented to God. It's true. When we're dedicated and baptized,
there are other gifts that we'd be expected to present to Jehovah on a regular basis.
One of the most obvious ways, as mentioned here at Hebrews 1023,
did you already guess what this gift to Jehovah would be? Hebrews 1023. Let us whole firmly
the public declaration of our hope without wavering. For the one who promised is faithful.
The public declaration of our hope is a gift to those we speak to, but it's also considered a gift
extended to Jehovah. In fact, Hebrews 1315 calls our preaching work a sacrifice of praise,
that is the fruit of our lips that make public declaration to his name.
Israelites used to regularly offer the best of their animals or grain as sacrificial gifts to
Jehovah. Sharing in the ministry formally or informally is a gift to God. Regularly attending
our Christian meetings and participating in them is part of our worship and pleases Jehovah.
We're familiar with Hebrews 1024 and 25. It speaks of our custom of meeting together
and for what purpose do we meet? If I was there in your home with you, how would you answer?
You might quickly say, I go to the meetings to be built up and to be encouraged spiritually.
Well, no doubt you do. But at Hebrews 1024 and 25, the purpose of attending is expressed
in a totally different way. Instead of going with the soul intent of being encouraged,
verse 24 says, we're to consider one another, so as to incite others to love and find works.
Verse 25 says, we're to be encouraging one another. We should attend our meetings with the goal of
being a gift to others. Encouraging others is the goal. We do this by our sincere interest in others
before and after the meeting. Do you come to the kingdom hall early to encourage others?
When in the traveling work years ago, my wife and I drove into the parking lot
and got out of our car. Two brothers approached us and warmly said, brother and sister heard,
we were waiting for you. We're so happy to have you with our congregation this week.
Were they elders, ministerial servants, or pioneer? No. They were two little pre-teen age boys.
That boost gave us a fine start for a special week of activity. We also encourage others
by participating in the meetings. What an encouragement to the whole congregation.
Of course, if we all all go to the meetings with that goal and motive,
what will be the result to us individually? We all will come away, build up and encourage spiritually.
But we must never forget that being at our Christian meetings and participating,
including singing the songs and saying amen to the prayers is actually worshiping Jehovah.
You're presenting a gift to him at every meeting you attend.
From ancient times until now, Jehovah's faithful servants have contributed materially
to the support of true worship. That's presenting a gift to God as well. And we thank all of you
for your support. The governing body is able to provide so much for the benefit of the worldwide
brotherhood because of your generosity. Thank you. Thank you very much.
What about you, Christian parents? What gift can you present to Jehovah? Your children,
when you do your best to bring your children up in the discipline and admonition of Jehovah,
you are preparing a gift to your God. Think of the number of brothers taking the lead and the
organization at this time. Some are governing body members, helpers, branch committee members,
circuit overseers, elders, and ministerial servants. Where did so many of these come from?
Hundreds of thousands were children of Christian parents. The parents followed the admonition of
Ephesians chapter 6 verse 4. There are thousands more brothers and sisters that have been raised in
the truth by godly parents who are spearheading the word in the ministry, in Bethel service,
on construction projects, and in relief work. We thank you parents for all that you've done
and the precious gifts you've offered up to Jehovah and his organization. And what about the older
ones in our congregations? I'm 84 years young with eternity in view, but at some point we start to
admit that we're getting old. We start to feel that we're getting old. We start to look
like we're getting old. Some of us find ourselves slipping physically or even mentally.
Are we becoming less and less valuable to Jehovah? Is our gift now tarnished by age?
We might begin to think so, but that's not at all how Jehovah views older ones who had dedicated
themselves to him possibly many decades ago. A tarnished gold coin has as much value as a shiny
new one. Probably 1631 instructs us that gray hair is a crown of beauty when it is found in the way
of righteousness. It's not so much the color of the hair Jehovah admires,
and it's the life of self-sacrifice that gray hair represents. Jehovah views older ones who are
still found in the way of righteousness to be precious gifts to him. Why do pieces of antique
furniture often cost much more than a brand new piece of furniture? Or why is an older bottle
of fine wine often more expensive than a newer vintage wine? Age brings value to a gift.
You older ones have wisdom and experience that others in the congregation can benefit from.
It's not that you need to be holding the microphone and waxing eloquent on every paragraph at a
meeting, but modestly sharing your experience and wisdom with others on a personal basis can be
so helpful and encouraging. Jehovah loves you older ones, so even if you're bent with age
in your mind, stand tall as a precious gift presented to Jehovah. May all of us young and old
consider how we can enhance our gifts presented to Jehovah. If we have not yet dedicated our life to
God, is it time to seriously consider this gift? Can we enhance our gift by more closely monitoring
our view of Christian morality? What we look at or think about could compromise our gift to God?
How about our ministry, our attendance and participation at the meetings, or contributing
materially to the worldwide work? You parents, do your best to package the gift of your children
so that they will be useful to Jehovah and you older ones. Never forget that when it comes to wisdom
and experience, you only get better with age. Jesus is the best of Jehovah's servants. He's been
around the longest. Let's meet a sister who's applied the counsel to serve God from her youth on.
Sister Lydia Barnes is from Jamaica. Her gifts to Jehovah may have changed with age,
but what she gives to him today is in no way less valuable. I was born in the year 1911. I think I
began to learn about the truth in the 1930s. We never have a baby study like we're having no
I always read this watchtower magazine because when I read that magazine, that's what got me
interested so I keep reading. I could remember it was a convention we had and that back there was
but a drug root afford was the one who lived at the talk. So we should go and advertise, advertise,
advertise the King and the Kingdom. I realized that this was something different so that is
where I make my personal decision. I was at stop advertising. I take any and every opportunity
to witness to people. Lots of people come and visit me. Nobody has ever come
in my house and they don't get a terrible witness. I sometimes in and out of the hospital
and so even in the hospital, I have my territory right there. I do it in nurses, I do it in my doctor.
I wouldn't say that somebody helped me because I would say I am helping somebody.
That is so and neat. I always find myself talking to Jehovah. Sometimes we have uncertainties
and I would solicit Jehovah's help. Scripture shall we should remember our grand creator
in the days of our youth before these evil days come. I am now a hundred and six.
I am not able to do as before so I will say it's a good thing I always use the days of my youth
to do a lot of what's possible in Jehovah's service. Nothing could make me relax now. I always have
to be talking about Jehovah and the many blessings that I receive at his hands.
Imagine that we can make Jehovah's heart with joy. It's a pleasure. So I enjoy that very much.
The muscles know, you know, not for a month strong as before. I don't work on the street by myself.
Somebody has taught me to dicking them hard here. If my brothers they don't see me at the meeting.
I want to know what happens is the band because everybody is looking forward to see me there.
And I will say good morning brothers and they're with my morning sister bands and some of them
had a wonderful name for calling me. Some is listening forward for my comment. So I find
and the brothers are happy to have met the meeting and I told them when they feel that way about
making me feel good too because I can see that I am of some use. When we miss the meeting,
we lose a lot. I want all of us as a family then to enjoy Jehovah's new world to come.
My determination is to walk with Jehovah, be it to the end of my life or to the end of the
soul-gisting. I shall return to the days of my youth and my flesh will be fresher than that of a
deed. Remember then your grand creator and the days of your youth. That was sister bands' determination.
Lillian is now 108 years old and has been baptized for nearly 82 years. Her beautiful example
shows the contentment that comes from serving God whole soul at any age.
To give Jehovah our best, we need God's Word to know how to worship Him. That's why Jehovah's
organization works hard to make the Bible available to as many people as possible. At the United
States branch in Wal-Kill, New York, they are producing braille copies of the revised new world
translation. What does it take to make a good quality braille Bible and how our braille readers using
beautiful gift? In 2013 our English printed Bibles were revised and shortly thereafter the
braille Bibles were approved to be revised in English and Portuguese. We knew it was going to be a
large job. We were having problems with the pages either tearing or coming completely out of the
Bible. We tried changing the paper to see if that would be a simple solution and we had a brother
who is blind come in and help us. We would be able to test the paper in the machine and actually
walk it right over to the brother and he gave us immediate feedback on adjustments to the machine
or if it wasn't working at all. During our testing we tried about 25 different types of paper
but we ended up coming back to the idea that the binding was the best way to find a durable solution.
The result is that the durability is 400 percent stronger than it was before. You can pick up an
entire book by holding just one page. In the Literature Production Office we have ones who receive
the requests for the braille Bibles. We have ones who review these requests as they come into the system
and then we have a separate set of brothers who make sure that all the materials are here on time.
We get our orders from the office and then the office will then tell us how many to make
maybe the specific volume number. Braille Bibles come from the Wal-Kill Prennery on the Braille
production floor. Right at the end of the machine we have a Braille paper roll. We make sure that
there's nothing wrong with that roll and then it gets fed into the machine. It creates Braille on
both sides of the page and after that it gets cut and punched. We gather it do some quality
inspection. We'll bind it together. We'll rivet each section into a binder that has been
pre-labeled with the volume number. Do an inspection on it, pop it in a box and then send it out
the door. To produce the English Bible and Braille it takes about four and a half hours which then
breaks out into 28 volumes and the Portuguese Bible and Braille takes closer to five and a half
hours and that breaks out into 32 volumes. We did not start production with Genesis because
we wanted the brothers and sisters to be able to receive the volume that would be on the
congregation Bible reading schedule at our midweek meetings. So as we receive the files for each volume
it's being printed and sent out to our brothers and sisters. It's important to me to be able to
read God's Word rather than just listening because I am a visual person so the eyesight is gone
but I'm still visual. I learn better from reading than I do from listening. In my mind when I'm
listening my mind wonders but when I'm reading I can stop and meditate on what I'm studying
that helps me with my relationship with Jehovah. It has helped me a lot because a lot of things I
don't have to look up because it's in plain English. They have so many things in this new Bible that I
can use like the outline. I can get that outline and find something fast. It has the appendix. It has
the word index, the glossary. During the time of the memorial I was able to read the events of
the last week of Jesus' life. I really enjoy reading with one hand and pulling the other hand
down and reading the fun notes. I can participate more in the midweek meeting for instance in the
section digging for spiritual gyms. The brothers always get someone from the audience to read the
scriptures. So once I got the new Bible I could raise my hand and go out and to read and so the
whole meeting opened up. The revised edition helps me be more effective as a me and helps me to
find exactly what I need. Before the revision when he'd have a part on the meeting he would have to
get his brailler out and have me dictate one sentence at a time so he could type it all out what he
was going to use in his part. So this is nice because he has the right wording that all the friends have.
I like to carry it from house to house so I can only take the one volume because they're huge
but whatever the initial call is I can take that scripture and see if the household will let me
read a scripture for them. It means so much to be able to read the scriptures to do the personal study.
I am very thankful for all the work our brothers have done and been walkable. I really appreciate
the effort that they've all gone through because that's a lot of work. Then Jehovah's organization
they care for everyone. I was so thankful that they had the Braille Bible for the blind.
That's what draws me closer to Jehovah. Being able to study his word and look the scriptures up.
The new Bible is personal to me. I feel like it was a personal answer to prayer. Jehovah
supplied it because that's the main thing I wanted to read and I am so thankful to Jehovah.
Like these brothers and sisters treasure the gift of God's word. We pray that Jehovah continue
to bless the efforts to make the revised New World Translation available in more languages and formats.
With the Bible and Christian publications we're equipped to do all we can in the preaching work.
That desire to fully accomplish our ministry is captured in this month's original song.
All I can give. In what ways did you see the brothers and sisters giving all they can in the
ministry? They witnessed at every opportunity. They preached or to door in the public witnessing
at businesses, informally and in remote areas. They used our teaching toolbox
including videos to reach people in a language they really understand. The ministry is an important
way we imitate Jehovah's love for people. We also want to imitate Jehovah's holiness.
Brotherhood explained why we strive to stay morally clean. But what about keeping physically
clean? That's not always easy for busy Christians. In this dramatization see how Grayson gives his
son the loving counsel on cleanliness that he needs. I graduated high school that summer and wanted
to start regular pioneering. That's my dad Grayson. Dad was having car trouble that morning
and needed a ride to work so I gave him one. Okay my car was a little messy and smelly.
I mean it was winter and my car is pretty old anyway so I bother. When I get a new car
then I'll keep it clean. But he was making a big deal out of nothing. That morning was not good.
I thought it was over but later that evening dad brought it up again. But this time it went better.
He showed me a picture of his first car. It looked pretty old too. He said that while our home
or car may not be fancy or luxurious it should be as clean and presentable as circumstances allow.
I still didn't see what the big deal was. Then he explained that Jehovah is a clean guy and from
ancient times has always required that his people be a clean people. Under the mosaic law that
Jehovah gave to Israel cleanness and worship were inseparable. It specified that priests were
required to wash their hands and feet before offering sacrifices to Jehovah. While in an unclean
state an israelite could not have any part in worship or it could mean death. I said I'm not an
israelite and we're not under the mosaic law anymore. He said true but it gives us insight
into Jehovah's thinking. The law emphasized that cleanness was required of all those who worshiped
him and as Malachi 36 tells us Jehovah has not changed. Then he said something that really stuck
with me. Besides it's not all about us. Didn't he gave me a scripture to look up? It was second
Corinthians 6, 3, and 4. And no way are we giving any cause for stumbling so that no fault
may be found with our ministry but in every way we recommend ourselves as God's ministers.
I realized that things like our appearance, our homes, and our cars. These can all be a solid
witness to Jehovah in themselves. It made sense to me now. It's not all about us. I knew what I
had to do. Not only did I clean my car but later that year I was able to turn my application for
pioneering and I'm glad for the lesson I learned from my dad. It's not all about us. Even in little
ways we can reflect favorably on the God we love. What made Grayson's counsel effective?
Although he reacted to sitting in the dirty car, he waited until he was calm to give counsel.
He based what he said on God's standards in the Bible. And it took humility for his son to see
that his cleanliness could affect how others viewed Jehovah's clean people.
Humility helps us to accept correction but it can do even more. It was the topic of this
Bethel Morning worship wherein Brother Mark Numer asks why humility was such an important lesson
for Jesus' apostles and why it still is for us today. It is interesting that Peter gives
counsel about cultivating humility. Let's turn the clock back and learn why the quality of humility
was indelibly etched in the mind and heart of Peter. Let's open our Bibles to Luke chapter 22.
In Luke chapter 22 we'll find Jesus getting ready for that final Passover in 33 CE
and Luke 22 starting in verse 8 it is Thursday afternoon nice in 13 what happens verse 8. Jesus sent
Peter, there he is, and John saying go and get the Passover ready for us to eat. Get it ready Peter
John 9. They said to him where do you want us to get it ready? They understood the instructions.
Get it ready. Jesus said going to Jerusalem you'll find the man with the earthenware jar
verse 12 and that man will show you a large furnished upper room. Get it ready there. Verse 13
so they left and founded just as he had told them and they prepared for the Passover.
Get it ready. Prepare the Passover. What would that include?
Bread, wine, oil for the lamps, lamb, towel, basin, water, basin and water. They knew how important
washing feet were. They witnessed when Jesus approved Simon the Pharisee with the statement Simon
you gave me no water for my feet. Simon you gave me no water. You missed the mark on this one.
So as they stared at that basin and water as they prepared and got the room ready did they look
at each other and wonder who's going to wash the feet? Who's going to do it? They had a golden
opportunity to apply all the things that Jesus had been teaching them for three and a half years
on humility. This was the time three and a half years. Conduct yourself as a lesser one. Don't
lord it over others. You want to serve others and not be served. This was it. This was the time
they could have showed Jesus that they got the point. They got it. They had time to think about it,
time to pray about it. It was Thursday afternoon. But now we progress and let's see what happens.
Let's now progress to the evening and now it's nice and 14. Let's pick up the account in John chapter
13. They got the room ready. They followed the instructions and now let's go to John 13 and get John's
vantage point from this. He was there. He was with Peter getting it ready. So now it's 98 CE
and John is writing this information. He had time to reflect and to think about this for years.
And now look what he says in verse three. So Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things
into his hands and that he came from God and was going to God, knowing these things. He understood
that. He sat back and said, Jesus knew who he was. He knew all things. He had the full understanding
of his dignity. He knew that he had been entrusted with all things. He knew. He knew he was the second
greatest personage in the universe. He knew he was the first born of all creation. He knew he had
shared with his father and creating all things. He had knowledge of all this knowing all these
things. John sits back. He writes this and then knowing this verse four, the contrast. He got up
from the evening meal and laid aside his outer garments. Taking a towel wraps it around his waist.
After that, he puts the water into the basin, starts to wash the feet of the disciples and dry
them off with the towel that was wrapped around him knowing who he was. John said he did this.
But not only does John reflect on who Jesus was, no, he reflects on why Jesus did it. Why did he
do it? That's what John was interested in. And we get that answer back in verse one where John says,
why? Because he loved his own and that were in the world. He loved them to the end. John said,
he loved them to the end. What does that mean? He wanted to instill in them qualities that would
help them conquer the world. Qualities that would strengthen the Christian congregation.
Qualities such as unselfish love and humility, he loved them to the end. He never gave up on them.
They had their weaknesses, but he did not give up. Now, for Peter some 30 years later, he's
thinking about humility. John some 60 years later, after the lesson Jesus taught about humility,
it's echoing loud and clear in his mind and heart. However, the fact remains that neither of them
had the humility at the time to apply what Jesus had been teaching them for three and a half years.
Now, after John finished his writing, he sits back. He was under inspiration. He finished that
writing. Did he sit back, reread what he just wrote? Perhaps he said to himself,
I wish I could have written. After Jesus washed the feet of one or two of his disciples,
I got up and washed the feet of the rest of my brothers. I took that towel and I imitated
the Christ. Or Peter and I got up, but the point is they didn't. What can we learn? Don't allow
valuable lessons that Jesus teaches us to echo in our minds and hearts only after we miss the
opportunity to apply them. So in a practical setting for us serving here at Bethel,
even though I know I have the seniority, I have full knowledge of my seniority,
will I get up and fight the attitude of entitlement. I know I have authority and trusted to me as
the overseer. I am the overseer. I know that. I have full knowledge of that. Fine.
Will I get up and roll my sleeves back and do the grunt work or do I just find pleasure in giving
orders? I know. I have a wonderful privilege of service. I know that. Others know it too. Fine.
But will I get up to train others? Brother Jackson reminded us of this at the last Gilead
graduation when he said treasure your privileges but don't hoard them. That means we have to get up.
It takes humility to train others to take our place as a brother or a sister. I know I have more
experience than the other person in my job. I know I have the experience. I know that. I have more
experience than my workmate. Fine. But will I get up and all humility and share information that I
have with others to make their job easier? Or will I hold knowledge? I have hostage.
If we get up and all humility and do these things, then we can say Jesus Humble Act as recorded
here in John 13 has made a lasting and indelible impression not only on Peter and John, but on me.
What a powerful lesson. Humility will improve the way we carry out our
Theocratic assignments. It honors our fellow workers and it promotes unity.
Unified servants of God get things done. In Peru, local brothers worked with international servants and
volunteers to complete two new assembly halls. In this report, hear what the brothers learned from
working together and how the new assembly halls are being used to glorify Jehovah.
I suppose whatever we give to Jehovah, it's little in comparison what he gives to us.
And like Malachi 310 says, you know, we just have to bring in the 10th path really is all Jehovah's
asking, but he pours out of blessing. Part of those blessings from Malachi 310, I consider to be
the friendships that we've gained. For me, my favorite thing is people, it's always, it's just
just getting to work with your brothers every day. The personalities shine through even with language
differences. You just make friends and you just get this taste of what the new new world is going to
be like. Side by side with our brothers and we've made parent figures and brother and sister
figures and everybody just becomes part of such a solid family. Working along with the local
brothers and sisters made it clear to me that we really are in the organization that Jehovah is
directing today. What I have seen is how Jehovah's spirit operates in his organization.
There were many international servants here from various countries with different personalities
along with our local brothers with their distinct customs.
But when it was time to work, we were as one. There wasn't a big guy, a little guy, someone more
intelligent or less intelligent. We all formed one united team. The language definitely was an issue
for me. At first I thought, will I really be able to work with the brothers?
Since I didn't understand the language, how could I explain the work that had to be done?
Really, if you go in there with a good attitude that you're just having a good time working with
your brothers, you're not going to have too much of a problem. Smile, they cross the borders.
The Chiklao dedication program was held April 9th, 2016 and it through he assembly hall was
dedicated shortly thereafter on July 31st. All present marveled with appreciation at seeing the
facilities. Their own new assembly hall. Before we had to work a lot, maybe up to 15 days beforehand
to prepare a completely inappropriate site, not anymore, now the brothers only need to maintain it
and simply arrive in order to enjoy their assembly. I'm sure that this new assembly hall
will strengthen the spirituality of our dear brothers and sisters. If I could say something about
the video monitors, they've revolutionized Jehovah's Method of teaching. We get so much more out of
the talks now because we can see the gestures of the brothers. It really touches the heart. It's so
amazing. I remember more than 25 years ago, I prayed to Jehovah and said, Jehovah, please,
permit me at some point to see an assembly hall here. And now, Jehovah let me be part of the
buying process, getting the documentation and to be in the construction. And I remember and I say,
Jehovah answered my prayer. Well, it affected me seeing the construction progress because when we
first arrived in our project in Chiklao, you know, what the brothers had, what they were using as
a assembly hall. And then to see the finished project that we see now, I'm so happy for the
brothers and sisters. It's a beautiful, clean, neat and tidy. It's like a, in reality from where
it is, it's a little jewel within that whole city to me. When I see a completed project,
and I know that brothers do just love to be able to care for that place, to be able to go
worship Jehovah there, be with their brothers and sisters. There's nothing that'll ever compare
with this wonderful experience we've gotten to have. It's been great. We've enjoyed a wonderful
program. Our videos showed us so many of the ways we can present our gift to Jehovah.
I agree. We saw our brothers, young and old, give their best in the ministry, in the congregation,
at Bethel, and on construction projects. And we heard good counsel to be humble, morally clean,
and physically clean. And to conclude our program, we have greetings from our brothers and
sisters in Chad. Chad is located in North Central Africa. With this Arab desert in the North,
most of Chad's more than 13 million people live in the fertile southern regions.
Fewer than a thousand brothers live in preach in this vast field dotted with remote villages.
The capital city is in Jameena. Five congregations are busy spraying the good news in the city
and its surrounding area. One of these, just south of the capital, is the Waleer congregation.
They preach regularly along the Logan River, with a often meet people traveling from far away areas.
Their busy activity also helped to establish a new congregation nearby Kondul.
The brothers in Kondul and Waleer send us their heartfelt Christian love and greetings.
We pray for Jehovah to bless their gifts of brotherly affection and self-sacrifice.
Thank you for joining us. From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is J.W. Broadcasting.